# 0.17 (2023-08-06)

## Configure environment variables across configure, build and install stages

Packages performing configuration, building and installation stages have the
ability to forward configured environment variables for each stage (using
`LIBFOO_CONF_ENV`, `LIBFOO_BUILD_ENV` and `LIBFOO_INSTALL_ENV`). This
requires some duplication if a developer wanted to define an environment
variable to apply to all of these stages. With the introduction of the
`LIBFOO_ENV` option, this can now be achieving as follows:

```python
LIBFOO_ENV = {
    'OPTION': 'VALUE',
}
```

## Option to explicitly override `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE`

When building with CMake in releng-tool, the default build type is configured
for `RelWithDebInfo`. Developers can now override this for a package by
using the newly added `LIBFOO_CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` option (alternatively,
over defining a `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` override in a configuration define
dictionary).

## Improvements for development and local-sources modes

A series of changes have been made to help improve usability when taking
advantage of development or local-sources modes. A new action `state` has
been added to allow users to query active modes without having to manually
inspect file flags or perform active run of releng-tool:

```shell-session
$ releng-tool state
...
Development mode: Enabled
Local-sources mode: Disabled
```

When disabling development or local-sources mode, users would originally
have to invoke a `mrproper` call or manually clear file flags. With this
release, users can pass in a `-` value for these modes when attempting to
unconfigure. For example, to unconfigure development mode:

```shell-session
$ releng-tool --development -
...
(warn) development mode has been unconfigured
```

Or remove a local-source mapping:

```shell-session
$ releng-tool --local-sources pkg-a:-
...
(warn) local-sources mode has been unconfigured
```

Additional changes include:

- Relative paths are now properly handled when provided into a local-sources
  command line argument.
- When listing configured local-sources for a project, releng-tool will
  inform users if the configured directory does not exist.

## Support for Perforce sites

With this release, releng-tool now supports cloning from Perforce depots.
In a host environment with Git and Perforce client utilities installed,
releng-tool runs can download a copy of depot file specification when
processing a package:

```python
LIBFOO_SITE = 'perforce+<host> <depot-file-spec>'
```
