# 1.2 (2024-07-01)

## Automatic package preparation for compatible local-sourced packages

When operating in a [local-sources mode](/guides/local-sources-mode), users
would be required to prepare the sources of internal-flagged packages before
running a build. While this gives users full control over the sources used,
the process can be a tedious when trying to prepare a new working environment.

To help improve the user experience, when releng-tool is now operating in a
local-sources mode and an internal-flagged package does not have sources
already setup, releng-tool will attempt to prepare the package automatically.
For supported version control systems, when a repository is detected as
missing, releng-tool will use the package's site to automatically
clone/checkout sources. Supported types are as follows:

- CVS
- Git
- Mercurial
- SVN

Once a local package has been prepared, releng-tool will no longer try to
manage the repository. Responsibility moves back to the user in the same
manner as if the user manually prepared the repository.

## Introducing the punch action

For a releng-tool run, packages will go through various stages (fetching,
configuration, building, etc.) followed by any post-stage scripts. Once a
package has been processed, it will not repeat a stage until the output is
cleaned. Users do have means to perform [rebuilds](/getting-started/rebuilds),
although users need to explicitly request reconfigurations, rebuilds, etc.
on specific packages based on what they may be working on. If a developer is
updating several packages, which may be common in a
[local-sources mode](/guides/local-sources-mode), the developer may need to
explicitly request a re-action on multiple packages which can be
time-consuming.

This release introduces a new action [`punch`](action-punch):

```
releng-tool punch
```

It allows a user to hint to releng-tool to force processing each package,
even if a package has already completed stages before. Specifically, when
running with a [`punch`](action-punch) action, a releng-tool run will
operate very similar as if the action was not set. However, if a package
has already be configured, built or installed; these actions will be
performed again in the same manner as if a user invoked
[`<package>-reconfigure`](action-pkg-reconfigure),
[`<package>-rebuild`](action-pkg-rebuild) or
[`<package>-reinstall`](action-pkg-reinstall); respectively. This may be
time-consuming for a run to repeat these stages, but helps a user avoid
needing to run multiple commands for a desired rebuild.

Note that this is similar to what the [`--force`](arg-force) argument
already provides. Having an action dedicated for this capability should
make it a bit more straightforward to users what they are performing. The
use of the [`--force`](arg-force) argument may change in the future.
Introducing this action should help support a possible deprecation/repurpose,
if needed.
