# 1.1 (2024-03-29)

## Support for output directory overrides using environment variables

While users had the means of configuring a custom output directory using
the [`--out-dir`](arg-out-dir) command line argument, there was no graceful
way of trying to override the output directory using environment variables.
As of v1.1, there are now two supported environment variables which can be
used to override where output content is placed.

The first variable to mention is [`RELENG_OUTPUT_DIR`](env-releng-out-dir). If this variable is
set, the value will define where output content is generated in the same
manner as if the value was set in [`--out-dir`](arg-out-dir). This can be useful for users
wanting to invoke releng-tool multiple times, without wanting to define the
output directory in the command line each time. Note that the command line
argument takes precedence over any environment variable set.

Support for a more advanced variable
[`RELENG_GLOBAL_OUTPUT_CONTAINER_DIR`](env-releng-global-out-container-dir)
has also been added. The use of this variable can be helpful for users who
build multiple releng-tool projects and wants to store output content in a
different location (either due to space limitations or mixed file system
environments). The path set in this variable is used as a container
path for all releng-tool projects. The resulting output path for a project
will be a combination of this container path, along with the name of
project's directory.

For example, if a user stores multiple projects inside a `~/projects/` path
and configures this option to the path `/mnt/extern-disk`:

```
export RELENG_GLOBAL_OUTPUT_CONTAINER_DIR=/mnt/extern-disk
```

The following folder structure should be expected:

```
├── usr/
│   └── home/
│       └── myuser/
│           └── projects/
│               ├── my-project-a/
│               │   ├── ...
│               │   └── releng.py
│               └── my-project-b/
│                   ├── ...
│                   └── releng.py
└── mnt/
    └── extern-disk/
        ├── my-project-a/
        │   └── ...
        └── my-project-b/
            └── ...
```

## SPDX updates -- custom licenses and database updated

Licenses checks for SPDX-approriate values now properly validate against
custom [license identifier field][spdx-lif] values. The use of a license
entry such as `Proprietary` is no longer accepted as a valid license
value. Users wishing to define a custom license for a package should use
a license identifier field value such as:

```
LIBFOO_LICENSE = 'LicenseRef-MyCompanyLicenseId'
```

Replacing `MyCompanyLicenseId` with an appropriate identifier promoted by
the organization or user licensing this package.

In addition, the internally managed copy of the
[SPDX license identifiers][spdx] has been updated to the most recent
version (v3.23).


[spdx-lif]: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3/other-licensing-information-detected/
[spdx]: https://spdx.org/licenses/
