# 2.3 (2025-05-04)

## Extended support Make/SCons utilizing a configuration stage

For both Make and SCons, there is no default configuration stage invoked.
Users have the ability to define command line options in `LIBFOO_CONF_OPTS`
to help trigger an invoke of the respective tooling if configured; useful
for packages which support a pre-build event.

However, if a package only utilized `LIBFOO_CONF_DEFS` or `LIBFOO_CONF_ENV`
(or a combination), the configuration stage would not be invoked since
`LIBFOO_CONF_OPTS` was not configured. With this release, if any package
configuration setting is set, the configuration stage will be invoked for
the package.

## Interpreter configuration for generated Python package launchers

As of v2.0, all Python packages use
[Python's `installer` module][python-installer] to install packages into
a staging/target area. If a package defines project scripts, the `installer`
module would generate launcher scripts based on the running interpreter of
releng-tool. While functional for host packages, the results may be unexpected
for target installs (e.g. if releng-tool is running from a virtualized
environment).

In this release, releng-tool will now use fixed/"common" interpreter paths
to be used during launcher generation:

| Type        | Value             |
| ----------: | :---------------- |
| Non-Windows | `/usr/bin/python` |
| Windows     | `python.exe`      |

Developers looking to tailor the interpreter used can utilize the new option
[`LIBFOO_PYTHON_INSTALLER_INTERPRETER`](pkg-opt-python-installer-interpreter).
For example:

```
LIBFOO_PYTHON_INSTALLER_INTERPRETER = '/opt/custom/python'
```

## Introducing `releng_path` helper script function

To help the user experience for developers wishing to easily create
[`pathlib.Path`][pathlib-path] instances without needing to define an
`import`, a new script helper `releng_path` has been introduced.

For example, instead of needing to invoke:

```
from pathlib import Path

mypath = Path('example')
```

The following may be performed in a releng-tool script:

```
mypath = releng_path('example')
```

## Support for environment-configured parallel/job count

Users of a build can use the [`--jobs <jobs>`](arg-jobs) argument to
explicitly configure the number of jobs to use for a run. However, using
the command line may not be preferred over trying to configure with an
environment variable instead. To be flexible for such scenarios, the
[`RELENG_PARALLEL_LEVEL`](env-releng-parallel-level) environment option
has been introduced as an alternative way to configure the job count.


[pathlib-path]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/pathlib.html#pathlib.Path
[python-installer]: https://installer.pypa.io/
