# 2.4 (2025-05-31)

## Add VCS revision to SBOM documents

When generating software build of materials (SBOM) documents, these documents
will now attempt to include package revision values where applicable. The
version entry for packages have always used [`LIBFOO_VERSION`](pkg-opt-version)
(or fallback to [`LIBFOO_REVISION`](pkg-opt-revision) if a version is not
configured). However, the version/revision is sometimes be a branch and may
not be helpful in identifying of what sources are used.

For Git and Mercurial VCS types, the commit hash is now queried and included
for package entries. For other VCS types, if the revision value does not match
the configured version value, the revision value will now be included.

## Introduce a `--debug-extended` argument

releng-tool command line arguments will now support a `--debug-extended`
argument. When configured, a releng-tool process may print more information
than what may be seen in a normal debug-run. At this time, this includes
printing an extended/sorted list of arguments used in process executions, as
well as printing out each environment variable used for the process executions.

## Support Visual Studio Build Tools when using injected Visual Studio support

For projects using the [`vsdevcmd`](conf-vsdevcmd) option to inject Visual
Studio Developer Command Prompt (`VsDevCmd.bat`) variables into the
releng-tool process, this implementation relies on
[Visual Studio Locator (vswhere)][vswhere] to find which version of Visual
Studios to use. While finding the tooling works for most installations,
environments that rely on Visual Studio Build Tools may fail to inject since
it is not a product type that is automatically included in a search.

This latest release of releng-tool now forces the inclusion of all product
types when searching for tooling on a system. For users wanting to target
specific products can now use the recently introduced
[`vsdevcmd_products`](conf-vsdevcmd-products) project configuration or
[`LIBFOO_VSDEVCMD_PRODUCTS`](pkg-opt-vsdevcmd-products) package configuration.


[vswhere]: https://github.com/microsoft/vswhere
