# 2.5 (2025-06-22)

## Introducing Profiles

A user can now provide ["profile" hints](/guides/profiles) for a releng-tool
execution. These are simple string hints that a caller can used to inform a
project of custom runtime states that should be performed. A user can trigger
a run to use a profile by using the [`--profile` argument](arg-profile). For
example, the following will enable a profile name `awesome-mode`:

```
releng-tool --profile awesome-mode
```

A profile value can then be read by a project's configuration or various
package stages to manipulate a run as desired. Active profiles can be
determined by checking the [`RELENG_PROFILES`](env-releng-profiles) variable.
To continue with this example, if looking to add an additional package when
using the `awesome-mode` profile, the following can be added in a project's
`releng-tool.rt` file:

```python
packages = [
    'example',
]

if 'awesome-mode' in RELENG_PROFILES:
    packages.append('awesome-mods')
```

Multiple profiles can be enabled for a run:

```
releng-tool --profile awesome-mode --profile another-example
```

Note that releng-tool does not use any provided profile values other than
normalizing profile strings to be forwarded to project/package scripts.

## Support flexible Visual Studio Developer Command Prompt installs

For projects using the [`vsdevcmd`](conf-vsdevcmd) option, it was not
consistent to which Visual Studio installation was used based on how
releng-tool invoked [Visual Studio Locator (vswhere)][vswhere]. This release
aims to be more consistent and flexible for the automatic selection by:

- Using the most recent revision of Visual Studio (e.g. 2022 over 2019) and
  most recent install (e.g. if Visual Studio Enterprise was the most recent
  install, it is used).
- If a Visual Studio installation does not define a Visual Studio Developer
  Command Prompt script (`VsDevCmd.bat`), look for the next Visual Studio
  installation. This can help avoid issues where environments may include an
  installation of Visual Studio Test Agent.

Note that users can still use the [`vsdevcmd_products`](conf-vsdevcmd-products)
project configuration or [`LIBFOO_VSDEVCMD_PRODUCTS`](pkg-opt-vsdevcmd-products)
package configuration to select a specific product type to use.


[vswhere]: https://github.com/microsoft/vswhere
