# 2.2 (2025-03-29)

## Improved support for Path-like usage

Improvements have been made to both package configurations and script
environment variables to handle/provide Path-like capabilities. This
should provide flexibility for developers wanting to use either string
or Path-like variables in their scripts.

For example, environment variables representing paths in scripts can now
utilizing Path-like features. Previous implementation may have had scripts
that prepared paths using joins:

```python
my_subdir = releng_join(TARGET_DIR, 'subdir')
```

This now can be replaced using the following:

```python
my_subdir = TARGET_DIR / 'subdir'
```

Package configuration options now accept Path-like values as well. For
example, previous releases where developers may use `pathlib` to define
a file would have had to cast the value before providing it into a
`LIBFOO_CONF_DEFS` option:

```
from pathlib import Path

MY_CONFIG = Path(__file__) / 'resources' / 'prj.conf'

LIBFOO_CONF_DEFS = {
    '--conf': str(MY_CONFIG),
}
```

With this release, performing a cast is no longer required:

```
LIBFOO_CONF_DEFS = {
    '--conf': MY_CONFIG,
}
```

Note that capabilities like [`releng_join`](releng_tool.releng_join) will
remain. releng-tool plans to support both string and Path-like arguments
where possible.

## Extension priority changes

Support for [alternative extensions](/guides/tips/alternative-extensions)
has been tweaked in which extension is used first over others. As
releng-tool promotes the `.rt` extension over others, it will be the
first extension checked for. The new extension ordering is as follows:

1. File with a `.rt` extension
1. File with a `.py` extension
1. File without an extension *(deprecated)*
1. File with a `.releng` extension *(deprecated)*

Where before this release, the extension priority was:

1. File without an extension
1. File with a `.rt` extension
1. File with a `.releng` extension
1. File with a `.py` extension

It is recommended for any projects using extensionless scripts or using the
`.releng` extension to transition to using the `.rt` extension.

## Fixes with directory copies and symbolic links

Corrections to [`releng_copy`](releng_tool.releng_copy) and
[`releng_copy_into`](releng_tool.releng_copy_into) have been made to
properly replicate directory symbolic links found in the first-level path
of a provided directory. The original implementation of these calls would
treat directory symbolic links in the same manner as directories and
replicate the content inside.

## Convenient working directory changes with `releng_tmpdir`

The [`releng_tmpdir`](releng_tool.releng_tmpdir) script helper has been
updated to allow hinting a working directory change should occur in a
prepared temporary directory.

Before, developers could use a combination of
[`releng_tmpdir`](releng_tool.releng_tmpdir) with
[`releng_wd`](releng_tool.releng_wd) to help easily prepare and
move a working context into a temporary directory:

```python
with releng_tmpdir() as dir_, releng_wd(dir_):
    # invoked in temporary directory
    ...
```

With this release, developers can use the `wd` argument to achieve the
same result:

```python
with releng_tmpdir(wd=True):
    # invoked in temporary directory
    ...
```
