# 2.0 (2025-02-09)

## Dropping support for end-of-life versions of Python

To help improve maintenance work for releng-tool, the utility will now only
support versions of Python that have not reached
[end-of-life][python-release-cycle]. At the time of this release, this includes
support for Python 3.9 and later.

## Overhaul of Python package processing

A significant rework of the management of Python packages has been made. This
aims to address the shortcomings on how packages were installed to a target.
All Python packages will use [Python's `installer` module][python-installer]
for their install stage. A consistent scheme (similar to
[`posix_home`][python-sysconfig-posix_home]) will be used no matter what
platform or distribution releng-tool is running on. This should prevent
oddities in the location where Python files are installed into a host,
staging or target area.

Developers can override the scheme used by configuring
[`LIBFOO_PYTHON_INSTALLER_SCHEME`](pkg-opt-python-installer-scheme) for a
package. The scheme may be configured to `native` to observe the same results
in older versions of releng-tool. The option can also be configured with a
supported variant defined by [`sysconfig`][python-sysconfig] or even a
completely customized scheme for the project/package.

Additional configurations for Python package includes
[`LIBFOO_PYTHON_INSTALLER_LAUNCHER_KIND`](pkg-opt-python-installer-launcher-kind),
which can be used to tailor what type of package script is generated during
an install; as well as [`LIBFOO_PYTHON_DIST_PATH`](pkg-opt-python-dist-path),
which can be used to indicate the alternative location for a `dist/` (if
required). Note that older Python setup types will require [`wheel`][wheel]
to be available to ensure a proper wheel is generated to be installed.

Related to the above changes, the following improvements have been made to
Python packages:

- Addressed some installation scenarios where configured package installation
  prefixes were not applied.
- Improve the automatic path registration for host-configured Python packages.
  This includes both installed scripts and provided Python modules.
- Developers can now issue re-install events on Python packages without
  the process complaining about overwriting files in a target.

## Corrections to Git submodule using incorrect revisions

While releng-tool has aimed to support the use of Git submodules for Git-based
sites, limitations existed in which revisions were used when cloning these
modules. When a submodule was processed in previous versions, releng-tool
would incorrectly determine the revision based on the most recent release of
a target branch instead of the fixed revision tracked by the Git repository
(unless a package defined an explicit revision to use).

This releases corrects this by querying the specific revision in the Git
repository for the submodule path instead of incorrectly relying on a
submodule configuration used for synchronization.

## Alternative hash-files for package development revisions

A project can define [hashes](/guides/packages/hash-file) (e.g. `libfoo.hash`
for packages to validate fetched sources. An issue for users operating in a
[development mode](/guides/development-mode) is that configured hash checks
may fail if using an alternate revision for a package. This release now
supports creating revision-specific hash sets. A package may define a
respective `libfoo.hash-<rev>` file in a package, where `<rev>` matches
the revision being fetched:

```
└── my-project/
    ├── package/
    │   ├── libfoo/
    │   │   ├── libfoo.rt
    │   │   ├── libfoo.hash
    │   │   └── libfoo.hash-<rev>     <----
    │   ...
    └── releng-tool.rt
```

## Additional control/capabilities on fetching URL sources

Two improvements have been added into releng-tool in relation to managing
URL sources for a project. The first change adds support for retrying
fetch attempts if a transient error is detected. This includes scenarios
where a server has indicated a timeout, an internal server error or more.
A fetch attempt will now try up to a total of three times before stopping.
This aims to improve use cases such as preventing scheduled build failures
if a site is only down for a small interval.

A second change related to URL fetching is the introduction of the
[`--only-mirror`](arg-only-mirror) argument. When the argument is set for a
project that also defines [`url_mirror`](conf-url-mirror), all
[external packages](pkg-opt-external) will only be attempted to be downloaded
through the configured mirror. This may be helpful for developers wanting
to sanity check all expected resources are locally cached.


[python-installer]: https://installer.pypa.io/
[python-release-cycle]: https://devguide.python.org/versions/
[python-sysconfig-posix_home]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/sysconfig.html#posix-home
[python-sysconfig]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/sysconfig.html
[wheel]: https://wheel.readthedocs.io/
