# 2.8 (2026-02-22)

## Support for Waf package types

Introduction of the [`waf` package type](/guides/packages/pkg-type-waf). This
new package type allow a developer to easily invoke Waf targets at various
stages, without needing invoke these tools inside a scripts package.

## Introduce package configurable maximum job limit

This release introduces support for [`LIBFOO_MAX_JOBS`](pkg-opt-max-jobs),
allowing a specific package to configure maximum number of jobs it should use
for a build.

While [`LIBFOO_FIXED_JOBS`](pkg-opt-fixed-jobs) somewhat served this capability
before, its use was tailored for restricting packages to a single job only. If
a project could use a subset of jobs to run, there was no easy way to
configure this. This could be tricky for packages which might have memory
requirements per job unit which cannot be provided by a builder.

If a build environment has tens to hundreds of cores, but a developer knows a
package can only run around four jobs for package, they may tailor a maximum
count as follows:

```
LIBFOO_MAX_JOBS = 4
```

In addition to limiting job counts, the max-jobs value also accepts negative
values. This can be used to hint to using N-less jobs than the detected amount.
For example, if a package is best to use all cores but one for a build, a
package may define negative one as follows:

```
LIBFOO_MAX_JOBS = -1
```

## Project configuration revisions options

Packages will typically define revisions to fetch through
[`LIBFOO_VERSION`](pkg-opt-version) and [`LIBFOO_REVISION`](pkg-opt-revision)
options. This follows the idea of containing package-specific information
inside a package's definition. However, developers may instead wish to manage
fixed revisions in a single location due to their possible volatility when
compared to other options.

Developers looking for the convenience of managing revisions in a single
location can do so by defining a [`revisions`](conf-revisions) project
configuration option. For example:

```
revisions = {
    'libfoo': 'libfoo-v2.1',
    'myapp': '1.0.0',
}
```

For the package `libfoo`, the its [`LIBFOO_REVISION`](pkg-opt-revision) will
be configured to `libfoo-v2.1`. As well as the package `myapp` will have its
[`MYAPP_REVISION`](pkg-opt-revision) configured to `1.0.0`.

## Support skipping integrity checks for development-marked packages

Support has been added to allow developers to skip integrity checks for
specific packages when in [development mode](/guides/development-mode).

A package definition will typically have hashes defined for static resources to
verify their contents. While this is desired approach for standard packages,
a developer which defines a development-variant package when testing bleeding
edge sources can experience fetch failures since development assets will have
a mismatched hash. A developer can workaround this by appending additional
hashes for a package, but this can remove the flexibility of acquiring bleeding
edge assets for an internal package.

To workaround this scenario, the package configuration
[`LIBFOO_DEVMODE_SKIP_INTEGRITY_CHECK`](pkg-opt-devmode-skip-integrity-check)
has been introduced. Consider this example:

```
LIBFOO_SITE = {
    DEFAULT_SITE: 'https://pkgs.example.com/releases/libfoo-1.2.3.tar.gz',
    'test': 'https://staging.example.org/nightly/libfoo-latest.tar.gz',
}

LIBFOO_DEVMODE_SKIP_INTEGRITY_CHECK = True
```

This package defines a default and development site for a package resource.
If the package defined a hash file (`libfoo.hash`), the hash definition would
typically require explicit hashes for both `libfoo-1.2.3.tar.gz` and
`libfoo-latest.tar.gz`. However, if `LIBFOO_DEVMODE_SKIP_INTEGRITY_CHECK` is
set, when running with in a `test` development mode, no hashes are required
for the latest artifact.

## SPDX license database updated

The internally managed copy of the [SPDX license identifiers][spdx] has
been updated to the most recent version (v3.28).


[spdx]: https://spdx.org/licenses/
