# 2.9 (2026-03-01)

## New Linting Checks

Thirteen new linting checks have been added when using the
[`lint`](action-lint) action:

```
releng-tool lint
```

An overall summary of additions includes:

- Notify use of deprecated configurations.
- Notify use of development-mode package configurations for packages which do
  not configure a development revision.
- Various checks for package/feature-specific configurations when a given
  package/VCS/feature type is not applicable (e.g. attempting to use
  Git-related features for a non-Git VCS type package).

This change drops some warnings that were originally presented in a default
releng-tool run to now only show in a lint request.

## Support for Development Mode Patching

Developers may now utilizing patching support for packages with a
[development revision](pkg-opt-devmode-revision). Historically, patches
would only be aimed to run for non-development revisions as a way to
support delays in patch application for upstream release versions. However,
maintainers of a releng-tool project may also experience the same delays
when waiting for the application of packages on development streams they
cannot control. With this release, developers will have new options to
hint whether or not patches are applied to a package no matter what mode
is configured.

The default patching strategy has not changed from previous releases. Patches
for a package are still automatically detected and applied for non-development
revisioned packages.

If a developer now wishes to apply patches for a package with a development
mode revision, the [`LIBFOO_DEVMODE_PATCHES`](pkg-opt-devmode-patches) option
can now be used. For example:

```
LIBFOO_DEVMODE_REVISION = 'feature/alpha'
LIBFOO_DEVMODE_PATCHES = True
```

When operating in [development mode](/guides/development-mode), the `libfoo`
package will utilize the `feature/alpha` branch and will automatically apply
patches to the cloned sources during the patching stage. The patch
configuration also supports pattern matching to have only specific or a
wildcard of patches to apply. For example:

```
LIBFOO_DEVMODE_PATCHES = [
    '005-correct-cint-usage.patch',
    '007-remove-broken-mode.patch',
]
```

With the ability to support patching packages in development mode,
developers utilizing this feature may now need to configure packages to not
apply for a standard build. To support this, the configuration option
[`LIBFOO_IGNORE_PATCHES`](pkg-opt-ignore-patches) has been introduced.
If a developer wants to have new patches applied to only in a development mode
context, the following configuration can be used:

```
LIBFOO_DEVMODE_REVISION = 'feature/bravo'
LIBFOO_DEVMODE_PATCHES = True
LIBFOO_IGNORE_PATCHES = True
```

Normal builds will now not apply any patches to `libfoo` by default, and only
apply changes when in a development mode. This option also supports patterns
to allow ignoring only specific patches for a normal build. For example:

```
LIBFOO_IGNORE_PATCHES = [
    '*-new-feature-*',
    '006-support-new-compiler.patch',
]
```

For more information on tailoring patch applications for specific development
modes, refer to the documentation of the newly added options.

## Planned Removals Next Release

A series of deprecated features are now planned to be removed in a following
release.

- Bazaar-site support is planned to be removed. Developers can switch to
  using the Breezy-site type.
- Support for Python 3.9 (EOL) will be dropped.
- Package configurations [`override_revisions`](conf-override-revisions) and
  [`override_sites`](conf-override-sites) will no longer be supported.
  Developers can take advantage of the [`revisions`](conf-revisions)
  configuration key or utilize [variable injection](arg-variable-injection)
  for overriding options on the fly.
- The `LIBFOO_SKIP_REMOTE_*` options will be removed as respective
  `LIBFOO_REMOTE_*` options exist.
- An implicit Python package setup type will no longer be supported.
  Python-based packages are required to configure
  [`LIBFOO_PYTHON_SETUP_TYPE`](pkg-opt-python-setup-type).
